 第32卷第12期 2011年12月宇航学报 Journal of AstronauticsA Shape Design Scheme for Radar-Stealth MinisatelliteLIU Binl,ZHANG Xian92,ZHOU Jian-jian93,LIAO Wen-hel (1.College of Mechanical&Electrical Engineering,NUAA,Nanjing 210016,China; 2.Academy of Frontier Science,NUAA,Nanjing210016,China; 3.College of Information Science&Technology,NUAA,Nanjing 210016,China)V01.32 No.12Abstract:To make the satellite stealthy to radar is an important aspect of the satellite stealth technique.Because the contribution of an effective stealth shape to the radar-stealth performance of a satellite reaches 70%,stealth shape design is one of the most effective ways to realize the radar stealth satellite.In this paper,the shape design considered is for a radar― stealth minisatellite.Under the constraint of shape design for the minisatellite,a shape design scheme is firstly presented. Then,the Radar CROSS section(RCS)of the satellite with the proposed shape is predicted by using the high―frequency RCS computational methods on the basis of electromagnetic scattering theory.The predicted result shows that the proposed shape design Can meet the stealth requirements for the minisatellite.And alSO a real-size metal model of the satellite iS made and the practical RCS test iS performed in a microwave anechoic chamber.The tested RCS of the minisatellite iS consistent with the theoretical prediction,thus verifying the RCS prediction method and demonstrating the effectiveness of the proposed shape design for a radar-stealth minisatellite.Key words:Minisatellite;Stealth technology;Radar stealth;Shape designCLC number:V418 Document code:A Article ID:1000-1328(2011)12-2628-07 DOI:10.3873/j.issn.1000―1328.2011.12.024一种可实现雷达隐身的微小卫星外形设计刘 斌1,张翔2,周建江3,廖文和1 (1.南京航空航天大学机电学院,南京210016;2.南京航空航天大学高新技术研究院,南京210016; 3.南京航空航天大学信息科学与技术学院,南京210016)摘要:实现对雷达的隐身是卫星隐身技术的重要研究内容。有效的隐身外形对卫星雷达隐身性能的贡献 可达70%,是实现卫星雷达隐身最直接、有效的手段。对可实现雷达隐身的微小卫星外形设计进行探索性研究。 首先在假定的卫星外形设计约束条件下,提出一种隐身结构外形设计。然后根据电磁场散射理论,以高频散射计 算方法为基础,对具有该外形的卫星RCS进行理论预估。进一步制作全金属外形、全尺寸卫星模型,在微波暗室利 用频域测量方法,对理论预估结果进行了验证,说明了该卫星隐身外形设计的有效性。关键词:微小卫星;隐身;雷达隐身;外形设计0 IntroductionSatellite stealth technology is referred to as thetechnology that reduces the satellite signatures ofmicrowave,infrared,optical waves,etc.The intention of applying the satellite stealth technology is to make收稿Et期:2010―12-02; 修回日期:2011-03―16the satellite with strong survivability, morespecifically,decrease the interception probability or reduce the detectable range of the enemy detectionsystem as much as possible[1―2|.This is of great significance in the future space attack and defense.Ground and sky based space surveillance radars万方数据December201 1
 第12期 LIU Bin,et al:A Shape Design Scheme for Radar-Stealth Minisatellite 2629are commonly used for satellite detection andidentification.which are able to work a11 time in allweather with high resolution,good penetration andanti-jamming capabilities.Because of this,radar― stealth technology receives much attention in thesatellite stealth technology and develops very fast. Radar―stealth technology is also referred to as the radarsignature controlling technology,the idea of which is to minimize the target Radar Cross Section(RCS)in theradar antenna beam and decrease the electromagneticenergy intercepted by the radar or reduce thedetectable range of the radar by using any possible measures[3―4_.The stealth satellite developed by the UnitedStates has upgraded to the third generation and hasbeen put into real applications.Our country however hasn’t started the research and development of thestealth satellite.Considering the stress of the military conflicts in space,it is necessary for us to develop thestealth satellite technology.The satellite that weighs less than 500kg andworks the same as the large satellites of the same type is r娟erred to as the small satellite.The small satellite with weight less than 100kg is referred to as the minisatellite. In strategic sense,the stealthminisatellite is an important surveillance tool and can be used as a space weapon as well.It plays an important role in the future space attack and defense.The satellite RCS mainly depends on the satellite shape,conductivity and medium characteristics of the surface material.The contribution of an effective stealth shape design to the radar―stealth performance of tlle satellite can reach 70%and therefore the stealth shape design is the most straightforward and effective way to realize the radar―stealth of the satellite[1,3|.The principle of the satellite shape design for radar-stealth is converting the strong scattering center of the satellite to a subordinated scattering center,or shifting the strong scattering center of the satellite out of the region illuminated by the enemy radar given that the generaltechnical requirements of the satellite are satisfied.In this paper,the minisatellite shape design is explored to realize the radar-stealth.Given the shapedesign constraints.of the minisatellite,a shape design scheme is firstly proposed.Then,the scattering of the satellite with the proposed shape is analyzed using the electromagnetic scattering theory.Next,the satellite is modeled with triangle faces and the RCS is calculated using high frequency methods,such as Gordon method,Ufimstev method,shooting and bounce ray (SBR)method,etc.To verify the RCS prediction and demonstrate the effectiveness of the radar―stealth shape design,a real-size metal satellite model is made and the C。band RCS is tested in a microwave anechoic chamber.The testing results are compared with thetheoretical predictions.1 Stealthshapedesign1.1 Objective of the radar―stealth design’rhe objective of the minisatellite radar―stealthdesign is assumed to be:the C.band RCS of the minisatellite is less than――10dBsm in the range of [-40。,40。]with respect to the nose direction of theminisatellite.1.2 Constraints of the shape designr11le shape design of the minisatellite is generally constrained by the space provided by the rocket.In this paper,we assume that the available envelope is a cylindrical space with diameter1800mm and height 1000mm.The maximum size of the minisatellite is required to be less than the size of this cylinder.1.3 Shape design scheme’rhe satellite-signature―suppression shield used by the U.S.Misty stealth satellite is the only knownstealth shape technology that put into real applications.7nlesatellite―signature―suppressionshieldisa cone with diameter of 6―10 meters and height of 12 meters.The shield surface is plated with gold and supported bymuhipleribs,whichformslocalmultiple―edgeplaneon the cone surface.r11le muhiple―edge plane shape design is able to reduce the satellite RCS by 15dBsm, which is an important way to achieve small RCS of the万方数据
 2630 宇航学报 第32卷aircraft by shape design. Among the known aircraft shape designs,the U.S. F一1 17A stealth battle planeexploits the multiple―edge plane technique.Considering the existing stealth aircraft designs, the shape design of the minisatellite uses the multiple-edge plane structure in this paper.Given the objective of the radar-stealth design and the shape designdesign on the minisatellite functions,such as the effective interior capacity of the satellite,the usable area of the solar cell surface,the thermal controlling, etc.Since these issues are not the points of our paper, we will not go further here.constraints,the satellite is designed to be with adiamond-like shape,as shown in Fig.1.The bottom ofthe satellite is a hexagonal prism,the middle is ahexagonal frustum pyramid and the top is a hexagonalpyramid. Considering the connection of the wavelength A is 0.037m一0.075m and the waveminisatellite with the rocket,a quasi―cylindrical cavity is designed and installed at the bottom of the satellite, which is used to imitate the adaptor that is used forconnecting the satellite with the rocket.number k=2qc/a.is 83―169.As known、from theshape design scheme presented in Section 2,the maximum size of the satellite measured from the nose direction is 0.7m,which is much greater than theradar wavelength.Thus,the scattering of the minisatellite is in‘optical region’and the minisatelliteis a large electrical size target,which has high― frequency scattering characteristics[3’5|.Fig.1万方数据(a)M矗in view ofthe minisatelliteCo)Top view ofthe minisatelliteFig.2 High―frequency scattering analysis of the minisatelliteThe analysis of the high―frequency scattering of the minisatellite with the proposed shape is shown in Fig.2.The minisatellite Can be viewed as a composition of atop hexagonal prism,a middle hexagonal frustum prism,a bottom hexagonal pyramid and a cylindrical cavity formed by the adaptor.The satellite surface generatesthe specular reflection.The joints of the cylinders and cones,and the edges at the bottom of the pyramid andthe prism form the edge scattering.The tip at the top ofA stealth shape design for the minisatellite: schematic of the shape with the size of each partNote that except for the shape design constraintsdetermined by the rocket,a practical shape design of the satellite need consider the impact of the shapeTheoretical RCS prediction2 2.1In this section,we study the electromagnetic scattering characteristics of the minisatellite by taking the C-band radar wave as an example.The C。bandScattering analysis of the minisatellite
 第12期 lJIU Bin.el al:A Shape Design Scheme for Radar―Stealth Minisatellite 2631the hexagonal prism generates the tip scattering,which is so weak that nearly has no impact on the RCS of alargeelectricalsizetargetandthereforecanbeignored.The cylindrical cavity formed by the bottom adaptor generates the concave―cavity scattering.Furthermore, the plane・camber angular structure formed at the joint ofthe adaptor and the cylinder also generates concave―cavity scattering In this scattering,some energy return to the receiver due to the multiple reflections occurs inthe cavity a:4 the wave incidences on the angular structure.which affects the mono-static RCS of thenfinisatellite,especially the side―view RCS.Since the minisatellite is not a thin―long object, the traveling wave scattering is weak and can be ignored.Furthemlore,the impact of the traveling wavescattering on the minisatellite RCS can also be ignored because the satellite is a large electrical sizetarget[4-8圳.In conclusion,for the shape design of theminisatellite shown in Fig.1,only the specularscattering, edge scattering and concave-cavity scattering are considered in the RCS prediction of the minisatellite.2.2 Geometric modeling of the satelliteThe purpose of geometric modeling is to build up a numerical shape model of the nfinisatellite forelectromagnetic calculation,which is the basis for RCS calculation.In this paper,the panel method is exploited to obtain the numerical model of the satellite shape where the satellite surface is described by a series of faces and edges The business software Unigraphics 4.0 is used to obtain the solid model of the satellite and the triangular net division is performed. The result is shown in Fig.3.The smaller the triangular facet used for division,the higher the fitting accuracy and the RCS computation RCS is,but the computational time increases greatly.Thus,the size of the triangular facet should be chosen reasonably for a specified computation requirement.The A/16 principle is used in this paper,in which the maximum distance betweenthe surfaces of the fitted model and the practical model is less than A/16.万方数据lqg 3一 Tfiangular net division of the minisatellite solid model2 3 RCScalculationAs known from the analysis of the satellitescattering in Section 3.1,the nfinisateflite with theshape design in Fig.1 is a large electrical size target and the scattering is in‘optical region’.The RCS calculation is allowed to only consider the specularscattering, edge scattering and concave-cavity scattering.Thus,the RCS of the minisatellite can bepredicted by calculating the three types of scattering separately and then summing up the results.Suppose that the satellite surface is composed of mfacets.n wedges(forming edge scattering)and^ cavities.The RCS of the satellite is given as follows:,=I宝v/百+主v/石+圭瓜12(1)where吼.denotes the RCS of the i”facet,口。』denotesthe RCS of the广wedge and口“denotes the RCS ofthe l”cavity.As known from the high frequency methods ofcalculation[6―1“.theelectromagnetic scatteringPhysical Optics(PO)method exploits the Gordon formula to compute the scattering field,which reduces the PO integration to the summation by dividing the target surface into facets.Thus,PO method is much suitable for the RCS prediction of the minisatenite since the satellite shape is modeled using a panel model Furthernlore,since the Physical Theory of
 2632宇航学报第32卷 PoladzationDiffraction(PTD)method has better performance than the Geometrical Theory of Diffraction(GTD)method for the edge scattering calculation,the Ufimstev method is used in the RCSInput parameters、lminimtellite~I ~1I-一I~Proportionalfactorprediction.The electromagnetic scattering of a concave cavityconsists of two parts:one is the scattering formed bythe multiple reflections of incident wave via the interiorwall and the terminal of the cavity.Some reflectedwaves finally return to the opening of the cavity;theother is due to the diffraction at the edge of the openingof the cavity,which can be solved using PTD or GTD.As a matter of fact,the solution of the concave―cavityscattering mainly focuses on solving the first part.Anumber of methods can be used to SOlVe the concave.cavity scattering,such as guided wave mode method,SBR method Gaussian beam method,complex raymethod.etc[13|.Considering the concave cavityformed by the adaptor at the bottom of the minisatelliteis small,the first two methods can be used.Furthermore,the SBR method is widely used in thebusiness software for RCS calculation because it cancompute the RCS of a gradient concave cavity of anyshape and cavity pasted with wave absorbing materials. The SBR method is accordingly used to calculate theconcave―cavity scattering formed by'the adaptor and at the joint of the adaptor and the satellite.The calculation process is shown in the flowchartin Fig.4.For ease of the comparison with the testing RCS obtained in a microwave anechoic chamber,thepredicted results are presented along with the tested results in Section 4.3 Testing of satellite RCS in a microwave anechoic dlamber3.1 Testing scheme for metal shape satelliteA full一scale metal satellite model that has the sanle shape as we designed in Section 2 is made, which is referred to as the metal shape satellite in the rest of our paper.The RCS of the metal shape satellite is tested in a microwave anechoic chamber to verify the RCS prediction method discussed in Section 3 and the广。赫;瓦h.谲心嚣-万方数据C,hanging。 the aspectangleMaskingJudgment卜JEJ……。。:.。 1.. gagepn ”%mg ri攀茹誓茹。一”酬”出!Judgethe visibilityor I 。theed口e。jFig.4Flowchart of the calculation of the minisatellite RCS‘10Computethe scatteringfield offacets|丘 (Goalon facet method)Compute the scattodng field ofthe edges±厍(Ufimtsav metb《I)~盖.7丫、 TotaIRCSofthe satellite●RCS Distribution plotComputethe scatteringof the concave-cavity±厨effectiveness of the proposed shape for realizing the radar stealth.The metal shape satellite is made of wood with the surface pasted with aluminum foil.The testing frequency is chosen to be 5.45G in C band.The HHpolarization(both transmission and receiving usehorizontal polarization)and VV polarization(both transmission and receiving use vertical polarization)are considered in the testing.The RCS is tested with0。.15o and 30。roll angles.The aspect angle variesfrom 0。to 3600 with sample space of 1o.Fig.5 showsthe setting of the testing in XOZ plane and the definition of the roll angle.3.2 Test resultsOnly the test results for 0。roll angle are presentedhere due to the limitation of the length of the paper. For ease of comparison,the prediction results are also presented,as shown in Fig.6.The average RCS calculated over[一40。,40。]with respect to the nose direction(corresponding to 900 in Fig.61 of the satellite are shown in Table 1.3.3 Analysis of the test resultsObserving Fig.5,we may conclude:(1)the predicted RCS matches well with the testing RCS, which demonstrates that the RCS prediction method presented in Section 3 is reasonable and practical;!_~…1一一 model(SBRmethod)“
 第12期LIU Bin,et al:A Shape Design Scheme for Radar-Stealth Minisatellite 2633Fig.53∞ O。270。●Incident wavo (a)2-DSchematic ofthesettingforsatelliteRCStestingaSplXIt angle (a)HH polarization▲■●^●I 如f(2)As compared to the RCS at the tail direction of the satellite,the RCS at the noise direction of the satellite reduces by more than 15dBsm,which verifies the diamond-like shape design for the stealth satellite; (3)ComparingFig.6(b)试thFig.6(a),wesee that the polarization has little impact on the satellite RCS for a given frequency;(4)As shown in Table 1,with the proposed shape design,both the predicted and testing RCS of the satellite are less than一10dBsm, which meets the requirements of satellite stealthperformance.Table 1 Average of the predicted and testing RCSin the range of[一40。,40。]with respect to the satellite nose direction(Unit:dBsm)Note that the predicted results are less than the testing results by 2―3dBsm,as shown in Table 1. This is because that the RCS prediction does notFig.6RCS of the minisatellite for 0。roll angle and testing万方数据▲■●Co)Schematic ofthe 15。roll angleSchematic of the setting for satellite RCS testingtmpect angle (”w polarizafionangle宙∞p,0b∞o国q啊苗og墨磊∞p,.d∞o翻。薯∞o篇o=Comparison of the testing RCS and predictedfrequency of 5.45GHz using HH polarization and VV polarizationconsider any other scatterings but the specularscattering, edge scattering and concave―cavityscattering.Furthermore,the surface quality of the metal shape satellite model and the connectivity of thealuminumfoilonthesurfacealsoleadtotheincreaseof the test RCS.Note tllat the conclusions draw above based on Fig.5 hold forthe cases of other roll andes.4 ConclusionThe radar―stealth shape design for the mimsatellitewas explored in this paper.With the design requirementsof radar stealth and the shape design constraints,a shapedesign scheme was proposed.The satellite RCS with theproposed shape WflS firstly predicted theoretically usiIlg tlle lligh frequency methods.Next.a full-scale metalshape satellite model was made and the RCS Was tested in a microwave anechoic chamber.The testing RCS is
 2634宇航学报 第32卷consistent with the predicted RCS,which verifies the RCSprediction method.The analysis of the testing results shows that the shape design scheme proposed in thispaper meets the stealth performance requirements of the minisatellite.Proceedings ofthe IEEE,1974,62(11):1448―1461.[9] Pathak P H。Burnside W D.Marhe./ka R J.A Uniform GTD analysis of the diffraction of electromagnetic waves by a smooth convex suIface[J].IEEE Transactions on Antennas andPropagation,1980,28(5):631―642,[10] Jenkin F A,White H E.Fundamentals of physical optics[M].New York:McGraw.Hill,1937.[11] UfimtsevPY.Elementaryedgewavesandthephysicaltheoryofdiffration[J].Eleetromagnedcs,1991,11(2):125―160.[12] Michaeli A.Equivalent edge currents for arbitrary aspects of observation[J]. IEEE Transactions on Antennas andPropagation,1984,32(3):252―258.[13] Ling H,Chnu R C,Lee S W.Shooting and bouncing rays:calculating the RCS of an arbitrarily shaped cavity[J].IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,1989,37(2):194― 205LIU Bin(1981一),is currently a PhD candidate in JiangsuEngineering Technology Research Center of Digital Design and Manufacture, Nanjing University of Aeronautics andAstronautics,Nanjing,China.His research interest is minisatellite stealth technology.[2][3] [4] [5][6] [7] [8]Lei L,Shi X z,Lv Z J.Reconnaissance and surveillance[M]. Beijing:National Defense Indus田Press,2008.Knott E F,Schaeffer J F,Tuley M T.Radar cross section(Second Edition)[M].Raleigh,NC:Scitech Publishing, Inc.,2004.Ruan Y Z.Radar CreSS section and stealth technology[M]. Beijing:National Defense Industry Press,1998.Yuzcelik c K.Radarabsorbing material design[D].Monterey, CA:Naval Postgraduate school,2003.Jenn D C.Radar and laser CROSS section engineering.American [M].Washington DC:Institute of Aeronautics and AstronauticsPress,1995.Kline M,Kay I W.Electromagnetic theory andgeometrical optics [M].New York:Wiley Interscienee,1965.Keller J B.Geometrical theory of diffraction[J].Journal of the Optical Society of America,1962,52:1 16―130.Kouyoumjian R G,Pathak P H.A Uniform geometrical theory of diffraction for an edge in a perfectly conducting su矗ace[J].Address:29 Yudao St.,Nanjing(210016) Tel:13776691116E―mail:goshining@sina.COrn.cn万方数据(编辑:曹亚君)